---
cancelled: false
community_participation:
  at_event: unknown
  at_event_audience_audio: unknown
  at_event_audience_text: unknown
country: GB
end_at: '2026-06-02 19:00:00+01:00'
group: aiothub
imported: true
in_person: unknown
start_at: '2026-06-02 18:00:00+01:00'
timezone: Europe/London
title: AIoT Hub - Responsible AI at the Edge
url: https://www.meetup.com/aiothub-scotland/events/313432129/
---


IOT North - Scotland Meetup
AIoTHub (formerly IoT North) Community meetup are pleased to present Dr Koorosh Aslansefat in "Responsible AI at the Edge: Challenges for Fairness, Explainability, and Assurance"

Abstract:
As AI systems move beyond centralised cloud infrastructures, Edge AI is becoming a critical part of real-time decision making in homes, hospitals, factories, and cities. This shift brings new opportunities for privacy, responsiveness, and local autonomy, but it also exposes unresolved challenges for Responsible AI. In this talk, Dr Aslansefat examines what happens when fairness, explainability, and assurance must be achieved in environments where data, models, and decisions are distributed across heterogeneous devices. Drawing on applied work, the talk sets out the emerging landscape of Responsible AI at the edge, highlighting practical lessons, open research questions, and a path towards systems that remain trustworthy even when intelligence is highly decentralised.

Bio:
Dr Koorosh Aslansefat is an Assistant Professor of Safe and Explainable AI at the University of Hull, co-lead of the Dependable Intelligent Systems Centre and the deputy lead of the Responsible AI Group. His research focuses on AI safety, Explainable AI, and real-time dependability. He received the IET Leslie H. Paddle Award for his work on Offshore Wind maintenance scheduling and a Post-Doctoral Enrichment Award from the Alan Turing Institute for developing SafeML. His work has influenced practice beyond academia, including the German Industry Standard DIN SPEC 92005. Since completing his PhD in 2023, he has secured over £1.2M in PI/CO-I research funding.He contributes to Hull’s engagement with the EPSRC-funded National Edge AI Hub, working on pilots on hybrid federated learning and dependable AI at the edge.
