---
cancelled: false
community_participation:
  at_event: unknown
  at_event_audience_audio: unknown
  at_event_audience_text: unknown
country: GB
end_at: '2026-06-08 14:00:00+01:00'
group: gsf-scotland
imported: true
in_person: unknown
place: scotland
start_at: '2026-06-08 12:00:00+01:00'
timezone: Europe/London
title: Web going Green - from Edinburgh Uni
url: https://www.meetup.com/gsf-scotland/events/314765890/
---


Green Software - Scotland
Come along to our first GSF Scotland Hybrid event, brought to you live from one of the Green Software Foundations Scottish Partners: the University of Edinburgh! Live in person 12-2 and online 12.30 - 13.30.

And wow have they been doing some brilliant things at the university, some of which we are pleased to be able to present to you at this meetup. We will have 2 presentations, plus food and drinks for those who attend in person at the Edinburgh Futures Institute, plus live streaming for those of you who attend online.

Here is information on our first presentation, answering a question we in green IT ask ourselves regularly:

**Images and videos – when do they add value, rather than just page weight?**
by Katie Spearman, Content Design Assistant, and Dono Abdurahmanova, Green Digital Design Intern, both from the University of Edinburgh.
Every image or video on a university webpage carries a carbon cost often unnoticed by content editors. At the University of Edinburgh, we’re shifting the narrative about the perceived necessity for online media by asking editors to consider one question before they hit ‘publish’ – does it add real value?
We’ll share how we’ve:

* Worked with editors to quantify the impact of their media content and its effectiveness in supporting end-users needs.
* Reshaped image guidance to help editors make greener design decisions and increase digital sustainability awareness.

Join us to learn how your institution can think practically about improving digital sustainability one webpage at a time.

Our second session will look at the wider web estate, giving us an opportunity to learn how the university has been greening its estate, delivered by
Stratos Filalithis, Head of Web Strategy, Information Services Group at
The University of Edinburgh.

**How we have approached digital sustainability in our web estate and what's next**
How do large institutions work practically with creating more climate-friendly websites? In this session, the University of Edinburgh share their experiences, lessons learned, challenges faced, and what's next in their agenda for a "greener" web estate.

Come along and find out how the university has greened its web - and how you can do it too.
